---
layout: page
title: Insert JavaScript in a Web-Component
label: Script Tag
permalink: /:collection/usage-web-components/script-tag/
nav_order: 10
parent: Usage
---

## `<script>` tag

This tag holds JavaScript with imports, and any regular JS code.
It is fully scoped to the current component instance.

It has several reserved keywords: `state`, `methods`, `setup`, `connected` and `Lego`.
Refer to respective sections for further details about what these keywords do.


## `<script extend>` tag

The "script extend" tag is has a special behavior.
You will create a class extending the component, that's how you extend your
full component with advanced script.

To do so extend the `Lego` class, that's a naming convention:

```js
export default class extends Lego {
  …
}
```

From there you can catch `connected()` events, `changed()` when the state is updated,
override `setAttributes()` and all other Lego or HTMLElement properties.

It's also a great place to define custom events or custom methods for your component
that are accessible from the outside:

/bricks/my-element.html
```html
<script extend>
  export default class extends Lego {
    getStatus() {
      return `you are requesting status of ${ this.nodeName }`)
    }
    connected() {
      console.info('the component is connected to the dom')
    }
  }
</script>
```

/bricks/index.html
```html
<my-element id="elem"></my-element>
<script>
  console.debug(document.querySelector('#elem').getStatus())
</script>
```

### Accessing the component's DOM

Even if it's not the most recommended way it might occur that you need to access a DOM element from the script tag.

In which case the shortcut `this.document` will gain you access to the DOM,
wether it's the Shadow DOM (default) or you toggled to Light DOM (overriding).

`this.document` has all the native methods you may expect from a document such as
`querySelector`, `getElementById`, `querySelectorAll`…

```js
export default class extends Lego {
  init() {
    console.log(this.document.querySelectorAll('a'))
  }
}
```
